"The nice thing about being a celebrity is that when you bore people, they think it's their fault." - Henry Kissinger

"The folly of mistaking a paradox for a discovery, a metaphor for a proof, a torrent of verbiage for a spring of capital truths, and oneself for an oracle, is inborn in us." - Paul Valery

"If the world should blow itself up, the last audible voice would be that of an expert saying it can't be done." - Peter Ustinov

"Character is higher than intellect. A strong soul will be strong to live, as well as strong to think." - Ralph Waldo Emerson

"Le travail éloigne de nous trois grands maux: l'ennui, le vice et le besoin. (Work removes three great evils: boredom, vice, and need.)" - Voltaire

"A timid person is frightened before a danger, a coward during the time, and a courageous person afterward." - Jean Paul Richter

“I believe that imagination is stronger than knowledge – myth is more potent than history – dreams are more powerful than facts – hope always triumphs over experience – laughter is the cure for grief – love is stronger than death.” - Robert Fulghum 

"I do not think much of a man who is not wiser today than he was yesterday." - Abraham Lincoln

"Humor is the only test of gravity, and gravity of humor; for a subject which will not bear raillery is suspicious, and a jest which will not bear serious examination is false wit." - Aristote

"Study is hard work. It is so much easier to find something else to do in its place than to stay at the grind of it. We have excuses aplenty for avoiding the dull, hard, daily attempt to learn. There is always something so much more important to do than reading. There is always some excuse for not stretching our souls with new ideas and insights now or yet or ever." - Joan Chittister

"So many high chieftains, so many brave nations/ So many proud princes, and power so splendid/ In a moment, a twinkling, all utterly ended." - Jacobus de Benedictus (13th Century Italian Franciscan Poet)

"Every man is wise when attacked by a mad dog; fewer when pursued by a mad woman; only the wisest survive when attacked by a mad notion." - Robertson Davies

"Things are only impossible until they're not." - Jean-Luc Picard (probbly not the originator)

"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic." - Arthur C. Clarke

"Know the true value of time; snatch, seize, and enjoy every moment of it. No idleness, no laziness, no procrastination: never put off till to-morrow what you can do to-day." - Lord Chesterfield

 “It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly; who errs and comes short again and again; because there is not effort without error and shortcomings; but who does actually strive to do the deed; who knows the great enthusiasm, the great devotion, who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement and who at the worst, if he fails, at least he fails while daring greatly. So that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat.” -Theodore Roosevelt

"I can think of nothing less pleasurable than a life devoted to pleasure." - John D. Rockefeller

"Who is more busy than he who hath least to do?" - John Clarke

“Now the trouble about trying to make yourself stupider than you really are is that you very often succeed.” - Clive Staples (Jack) Lewis

"Hydrogen is a light, odorless gas, which, given enough time, turns into people." - Edward R. Harrison

"Accustom yourself to tireless activity…" - Field Marshal Prince Aleksandr V. Suvorov

“It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil.” - Henry David Thoreau

“Salt is like good humor, and nearly everything is better for a pinch of it.” - Louisa May Alcott (from "Little Men")

"Es kostet mich keine kleine Krise die Verunreinigung und das Suechtige aus meinem Leben auszuschliessen. (But it is for me no little effort to exclude the polluting and the addictive from my life.)" - Natalia Merchant (from "Ophilia")

"A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects." - Robert A. Heinlein

"Le premier pas vers philosophe, c’est l’incredulite. (The first step to Philosophy is disbelief.)" - Denis Diderot

“Virtue only becomes difficult by our own fault; if we could always be prudent, we should rarely need to be virtuous. But inclinations, easily surmountable, hurry us along without resistance; we yield to trifling temptations, the danger of which we despise. Imperceptibly we fall into perilous situations, from which we could easily have protected ourselves, but from which we can no longer extricate ourselves without heroic efforts which appall us; and at last we fall into the abyss, reproaching God, ‘Why hast Thou made me so weak?’ But, in spite of ourselves, He replies to our consciences, ‘I have made you too weak to save yourself from the abyss, because I made you strong enough not to fall into it.” - Jean-Jacque Rousseau

“All great Truths start as blasphemies.” - George Bernard Shaw

"When I write, I feel like an armless, legless man with a crayon in his mouth." - Kurt Vonnegut

"The third-rate mind is only happy when it is thinking with the majority. The second-rate mind is only happy when it is thinking with the minority. The first-rate mind is only happy when it is thinking." - A. A. Milne

“Journalism is printing what someone else does not want printed: everything else is public relations.” – Eric Author Blair (George Orwell)

"Never be a spectator of unfairness or stupidity. The grave will supply plenty of time for silence." - Christopher Hitchens

“Fear… is forward. No one is afraid of yesterday.” - Renata Adler

“The enemy is the gramophone mind, whether or not one agrees with the record being played at the moment or not.” - Eric Arthur Blair (George Orwell)

“For every complex problem, there is an answer that is clear, simple – and wrong.” - H. L Mencken 

“Today I will do what others won’t, so tomorrow I can accomplish what others can’t.” - Jerry Rice

"Ce qui manque aux orateurs en profundeur, ils vous le donnent en longueur. (That which speakers lack in depth they give you in length.)" - Montesquieu

"La nécessité nous délivre de l'embarras du choix. (Necessity delivers us from the embarassment of choice)" - Luc de Clapiers, marquis de Vauvenargues (18th Century French Writer)

"L'ennui est entré dans le monde par la paresse. (Boredom enters the world through laziness)" - Jean de La Bruyère (17th Century French Moralist and Satarist)

"A vaincre sans péril, on triomphe sans gloire. (To win without peril is to triumph without glory.)" - Pierre Corneille (17th Century French Dramatist)

"Quiconque flatte ses maîtres les trahit (He who flatters his master is a traitor)."
- Bisphop Jean-Baptiste Massillon 

"Borné dans sa nature, infini dans ses voeux, L’homme est un dieu tombé qui se souvient des cieux. (Born in nature, infinite in desires, man is a fallen god who remembers heaven.)"- Alphonse de Lamartine

“The brave may not live forever, but the cautious do not live at all.” - Richard Branson

“[Y]ou only find out what you ought to have known by pretending to know at least some of it already.” - Christopher Hitchens ("Hitch-22")

“How terrible it is that we have so many more desires than opportunities.” - Christopher Hitchens ("Hitch-22")

“A small daily task, if it be really daily, will beat the labours of a spasmodic Hercules.” - Anthony Trollope 

“Some books seem like the key to unfamiliar rooms in one’s own castle.” - Franz Kafka (In a letter to his friend Oskar Pollak) 

“It only seems impossible until it’s done.” - Nelson Mandela

“I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain.” - The Litany Against Fear, Frank Herbert 

“The thing of course, is to make yourself alive. Most people remain all of their lives in a stupor.” - Sherwood Anderson

“Man is the only lowest-cost, 150-pound, nonlinear, all-purpose computer system which can be mass-produced by unskilled labor.” - A 1965 NASA report advocating manned space flight

“Both life and death manifest in every moment of existence. Our human body appears and disappears moment by moment, without cease, and this ceaseless arising and passing away is what we experience as time and being. They are not separate. They are one thing, and in even a fraction of a second, we have the opportunity to choose, and to turn the course of our action either towards the attainment of truth or away from it. Each instant is utterly critical to the whole world.” - Ruth Ozeki ("For the Time Being")

“Never underestimate the enmity of those for whom outrage is a sport.” - Josephine Montilyet, character in Dragon Age: Inquisition

“The most dangerous thing in the world is to try to leap a chasm in two jumps.” - David Lloyd George

“Sexual freedom, sexual liberation. A modern delusion. We are hierarchical animals. Sweep one hierarchy away, and another will take its place, perhaps less palatable than the first. There are hierarchies in nature and alternate hierarchies in society. In nature, brute force is the law, a survival of the fittest. In society, there are protections for the weak. Society is our frail barrier against nature. When the prestige of state and religion is low, men are free, but they find freedom intolerable and seek new ways to enslave themselves, through drugs or depression. My theory is that whenever sexual freedom is sought or achieved, sadomasochism will not be far behind. Romanticism always turns into decadence. Nature is a hard taskmaster. It is the hammer and the anvil, crushing individuality. Perfect freedom would be to die by earth, air, water, and fire.” - Camille Paglia ("Sexual Personae")

“If you’re engaged in dialogue with someone and you really listen to what they’re saying all you have to do is notice when you don’t understand what they’re saying and then ask them for a clarification. And that's when you’re dealing with the factual world as well. What you do to formulate good questions is admit your own ignorance to yourself and then try to articulate that ignorance as clearly and simply as you possibly can.” – Jordan Peterson

“Every man has three duties: to plant a tree, have a son, and write a book. These all live on after us, insuring a measure of immortality.” – Jose Martí, Cuban poet

“Etiam si omnes, ego non. (Even if all others, not I.)" - Motto in Medieval Latin

“Nationalism usually does not spring from the meat-headed conviction that one’s nation is best in every way, but from something like a panicked realization that nobody in authority or around you is taking the nation seriously.” - Michael Brendan Daugherty

“He who can go to the fountain does not go to the water-jar.” – Leonardo da Vinci

“Those who will intelligently and purposefully do the most work will possess the world.” - Garet Garrett (“Work”, August 10, 1940)

“You may hate him now. But one day, God willing, you will be a father yourself, and you will fall short, as all parents do. And be hated. And you will know what it is to pray for the forgiveness of your own son.” - from The Crown (S.2 E.9), spoken by the character Louis Mountbatton

“I am free, no matter what rules surround me. If I find them tolerable, I tolerate them; if I find them too obnoxious, I break them. I am free because I know that I alone am morally responsible for everything I do.” - Robert A. Heinlein

“The sort of people who say that Michael Milken’s career is an indictment of capitalism never argue that Rod Blagojevich’s career is an indictment of democracy. They are predictable that way.” - Kevin D. Williamson

“Accustomed your tongue to say: I do not know, lest you become entangled in a web of deceit.” - Berakhot 4a.6

“You will never reach your destination if you stop and throw stones at every dog that barks.”  — Winston Churchill

“You must either make a tool of the [human], or a man of him. You cannot make both. Men are not intended to work with the accuracy of tools, to be precise and perfect in all their actions. If you will have that precision out of them, and make their fingers measure like cog-wheels, and their arms strike curves like compasses, you must unhumanize them.” - John Ruskin

“The course of history is determined by what people do with their opportunities”. - Thomas Sowell

“A six-shooter makes men and women equal.” - Agnes Morley Cleaveland ("No Life for a Lady")

“What fascinates and terrifies us about the Roman Empire is not that it finally went smash,” but that “it managed to last for four centuries without creativity, warmth, or hope.” - W.H. Auden (quoted without citation by Ross Douthat in "The Decadent Society")

“Education is an admirable thing. But it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.” - Oscar Wilde ("A Few Maxims for the Instruction of the Over-Educated")

“If you don’t know what I mean, what right do you have to call it nonsense?” - George McDonald ("The Princess and the Goblin")

“But that is the way fear serves us. It always sides with the thing we are afraid of.” - George MacDonald ("The Princess and the Goblin")

"If children started school at six months old and their teachers gave them walking lessons, within a single generation people would come to believe that humans couldn’t learn to walk without going to school." - Geoff Graham

“I am what I am, nothing more. I have failed, I said. I have lost myself. Would it have been my shadow. I looked round. The shadow was nowhere to be seen. ‘Ere long I learned that it was not myself but only my shadow which I’d lost… I learned that he that will be a hero, will barely be a man; that he that will be nothing but a doer of his work, is sure of his manhood. In nothing was my ideal lowered, or dimmed, or grown less precious; I only saw it too plainly, to set myself for a moment beside it. Indeed, my ideal soon became my life; whereas, formerly, my life had consisted in a vain attempt to behold, if not my ideal in myself, at least myself in my ideal.” - George MacDonald ("The Phantastes, Chapter 22

"One word of Truth shall outweigh the whole world." - Alexandr Solzhenitsyn (Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech, quoting a Russian Proverb)

“But the most dreadful thing of all was, that I now began to feel something like satisfaction in the presence of my shadow. I began to be rather vain of my attendant, saying to myself, ‘In a land like this, with so many illusions everywhere, I need his aid to disenchant the things around me. He does away with all appearances and shows me things in their true colour and form. And I am not one to be fooled with the vanities of the common crowd, I will not see beauty where there is none. I will dare to behold things as they are. And if I live in a waste instead of a paradise, I will live knowing where I live.” - George MacDonald ("The Phantastes")

“The artists do not understand full well what they are doing. They cannot, if they are doing something genuinely new. Otherwise, they could just say what they mean and have done with it. They would not require expression in dance, music, and image. But they are guided by feel, by intuition – by their facility with the detection of patterns – and that is all embodied, rather than articulated, at least in its initial stages. When creating, the artists are struggling, contending, and wrestling with a problem – maybe even a problem they do not fully understand – and striving to bring something new into clear focus. Otherwise they are mere propagandists, reversing the artistic process, attempting to transform something they can already articulate into image and art for the purpose of rhetorical and ideological victory. That is a great sin, harnessing the higher for the purposes of the lower. It is a totalitarian tactic, the subordination of art and literature to politics (or the purposeful blurring of the distinction between them).” - Jordan Peterson ("Beyond Order, Rule VIII")

“When one tries to rise above Nature one is liable to fall below it. The highest type of man may revert to the animal if he leaves the straight road of destiny…. When I have written to this man and told him that I hold him criminally responsible for the poisons which he circulates, we will have no more trouble. But it may recur. Others may find a better way. There is danger there – a very real danger to humanity. Consider, Watson, that the material, the sensual, the worldly would all prolong their worthless lives. The spiritual would not avoid the call to something higher. It would be the survival of the least fit. What sort of cesspool may not our poor world become?” - Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (said by Sherlock Holmes in "The Adventure of the Creeping Man, March 1923) 

"Il y a vraiment désir quand il y a effort d'attention. (There is truly desire when there is an effort at attention.)"- Simone Weil ("Attende de Dieu")

“Politics is entrepreneurship for people who prefer power to money.” - Kevin D. Williamson

“We should do our utmost to encourage the Beautiful, for the Useful encourages itself.” - Goethe

“When a man marries his mistress, he creates an immediate job vacancy.”  - Sir James Goldsmith

“I affirm, then, that you leave many enemies behind you here to go yonder and bring more back with you.” - Nicias (Athenian during the Peleponesian war, arguing against The Sicilian Expedition, according to Thucydides as recorded in The Peloponnesian War, translated by Richard Crawley.)

“Brothers: it is later than you think. Hasten, therefore, to do the work of God.” - Fr. Seraphim Rose (American aesthetic of the Orthodox Church)

“We have met the enemy and they are ours.”  - Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry (after having his flagship, the Lawrence, shot out from under him, rowing to the largely unscathed Niagara, and winning the engagement, he wrote this to open his two-line dispatch to Major General William Henry Harrison.)

“Talent can be described as ‘that which we have,’ and Genius as ‘that which has us.’ Now, although we may have little control over this power that ‘has us,’ and although it may be as well to abandon oneself unreservedly to its influence, there can be little doubt as to its being the business of the artist to see to it that his talent be so developed that he may prove a fit instrument for the expression of whatever it may be given him to express[.]” - Harold Speed ("The Practice & Science of Drawing")

“Tradition ist nicht die Anbetung der Asche, sondern die Weitergabe des Feuers. (Tradition is not the worship of ashes, but the bequest of fire.)" - Gustav Mahler

“Every age has its own outlook. It is specially good at seeing certain truths and specially liable to make certain mistakes. We all, therefore, need the books that will correct the characteristic mistakes of our own period. And that means the old books.” - C.S. Lewis

“The study of history is the best medicine for a sick mind; for in history you have a record of the infinite variety of human experience plainly set out for all to see; and in that record you can find yourself and your country both examples and warnings; fine things to take as models, base things rotten through and through, to avoid.” - Livy

“[E]very age differs in its temperament and the artistic conventions of one age seldom fit another. The artist has to discover a convention for himself, one that fits his particular individuality. But this is done simply and naturally—not by starting out with the intention of flouting all traditional conventions on principle; nor, on the other hand, by accepting them all on principle, but by simply following his own bent and selecting what appeals to him in anything and everything that comes within range of his vision. The result is likely to be something very different from the violent exploits in peculiarity that have been masquerading as originality lately. Originality is more concerned with sincerity than with peculiarity.” - Harold Speed ("The Practice & Science of Drawing")


"'Does a tall man deserve to be tall? Does Prince Steren deserve to be the son of a king? A bird might think he deserves to swim as well as a fish, but if he sits moping on the riverbank instead of using the wings God gave him, the fox is going to eat him. Your brother would rather have his own way than be happy. He’s thrown away the grace he was given because it’s not the grace he had in mind.' The Truthspeaker paused to reflect on that. 'There’s not much hope for a person who won’t live in the grace he’s given.'" - Jonathan Rogers ("The Secret of the Swamp King")

"La lutte elle-même vers les sommets suffit à remplir un cœur d'homme; il faut imaginer Sisyphe heureux. (The fight itself towards the summits suffices to fill a heart of man; it is necessary to imagine Sisyphus happy.)" - Albert Camus

“Any time, any time while I was a slave, if one minute’s freedom had been offered to me, and I had been told I must die at the end of that minute, I would have taken it – just to stand one minute on God’s airth a free woman – I would.” - Elizabeth Freeman

“Oliver Wendell Holmes said, ‘Think things, not words.’ In words, many see a need for ‘social justice’ to override ‘the dictates of the market.’ In reality, what is called ‘the market’ consists of human beings making their own choices at their own cost. What is called ‘social justice’ is government imposition of the notions of third parties, who pay no price for being wrong.”  - Thomas Sowell ("Basic Economics")

“We are far too seldom reminded that just as church-going is not religion, so reading and writing are not knowledge, and voting is not self-government.” - G.K. Chesterton

“Touching your cap to the squire may be damn bad for the squire but it's damn good for you.” - J.R.R. Tolkien (interview with Denys Gueroult for BBC in 1964)

“If a man uses a right wrongly, the answer is for everybody to use their rights rightly; not to give up all their rights on chance of curing the wrong.” - G.K. Chesterton

“It’s high time to remember that our first allegiance is to the human race. And the human race broke away from the animal world through thought and speech. It is natural that these should be free. And if they are shackled we return to our animal state.” - Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn (“Open Letter to the Secretariat of the RSFSR Writers’ Union”)

“Violence does not always, not necessarily, openly throttle the throat. More often it demands from its subjects only an oath of allegiance to falsehood, only complicity in falsehood.” - Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn

“Bad times, hard times, this is what people keep saying; but let us live well, and times shall be good. We are the times; such as we are, such are the times.” - St. Augustine	of Hippo